In previous videos, we talked about
the gradient descent algorithm and
we talked about the linear regression
model and the squared error cost function.
In this video we're gonna put together
gradient descent with our cost function,
and that will give us an algorithm for
linear regression or
putting a straight line to our data.
So this was what we worked
out in the previous videos.
This gradient descent algorithm
which you should be familiar and
here's the linear regression model
with our linear hypothesis and
our squared error cost function.
What we're going to do is
apply gradient descent
to minimize our squared
error cost function.
Now in order to apply gradient descent,
in order to, you know,
write this piece of code, the key term we
need is this derivative term over here.
So you need to figure out what is
this partial derivative term and
plugging in the definition
of the cause function j.
This turns out to be this.
Sum from y equals 1 though m.
Of this squared error cost function term.
And all I did here was I just,
you know plug in the definition
of the cost function there.
And simplifying a little bit more,
this turns out to be equal to this.
Sigma i equals one through m of theta
zero plus theta one x i minus Yi squared.
And all I did there was I took
the definition for my hypothesis and
plugged it in there.
And turns out we need to figure out
what is this partial derivative for
two cases for J equals 0 and J equals 1.
So we want to figure out what
is this partial derivative for
both the theta 0 case and
the theta 1 case.
And I'm just going to
write out the answers.
It turns out this first term is,
simplifies to 1/M
sum from over my training step
of just that of X(i)- Y(i) and
for this term partial derivative
let's write the theta 1,
it turns out I get this term.
Minus Y(i) times X(i).
Okay and
computing these partial derivatives,
so we're going from this equation.
Right going from this equation to
either of the equations down there.
Computing those partial derivative terms
requires some multivariate calculus.
If you know calculus, feel free to work
through the derivations yourself and
check that if you take the derivatives,
you actually get the answers that I got.
But if you're less familiar with calculus,
don't worry about it and
it's fine to just take these equations
that were worked out and you won't
need to know calculus or anything like
that, in order to do the homework so
let's implement gradient descent and
get back to work.
So armed with these definitions or
armed with what we worked out to be
the derivatives which is really just
the slope of the cost function j
we can now plug them back in to
our gradient descent algorithm.
So here's gradient descent for
linear regression which is gonna
repeat until convergence, theta 0 and
theta 1 get updated as you know this thing
minus alpha times the derivative term.
So this term here.
So here's our linear regression algorithm.
This first term here.
That term is of course just the partial
derivative with respect to theta zero,
that we worked out on a previous slide.
And this second term here,
that term is just a partial derivative in
respect to theta 1,
that we worked out on the previous line.
And just as a quick reminder, you must,
when implementing gradient descent.
There's actually this detail that
you should be implementing it so
the update theta 0 and
theta 1 simultaneously.
So.
Let's see how gradient descent works.
One of the issues we saw with gradient
descent is that it can be susceptible to
local optima.
So when I first explained gradient
descent I showed you this picture of it
going downhill on the surface, and we saw
how depending on where you initialize it,
you can end up at different local optima.
You will either wind up here or here.
But, it turns out that
that the cost function for
linear regression is always going to
be a bow shaped function like this.
The technical term for this is that
this is called a convex function.
And I'm not gonna give the formal
definition for what is a convex function,
C, O, N, V, E, X.
But informally a convex function
means a bowl shaped function and so
this function doesn't have any local
optima except for the one global optimum.
And does gradient descent on this type
of cost function which you get whenever
you're using linear regression it will
always converge to the global optimum.
Because there are no other local optimum,
global optimum.
So now let's see this algorithm in action.
As usual, here are plots of the hypothesis
function and of my cost function j.
And so let's say I've initialized
my parameters at this value.
Let's say, usually you initialize
your parameters at zero, zero.
Theta zero and theta equals zero.
But for the demonstration,
in this physical infrontation
I've initialized you know, theta zero at
900 and theta one at about -0.1 okay.
And so this corresponds to h(x)=-900-0.1x,
[the intercept should be +900]
is this line,
out here on the cost function.
Now, if we take one step
in gradient descent,
we end up going from this point out here,
over to the down and
left, to that second point over there.
And you notice that my line
changed a little bit, and
as I take another step of gradient
descent, my line on the left will change.
Right?
And I've also moved to a new
point on my cost function.
And as I take further steps of gradient
descent, I'm going down in cost.
So my parameters and
such are following this trajectory.
And if you look on the left,
this corresponds with hypotheses.
That seem to be getting to be better and
better fits to the data
until eventually I've now wound up at
the global minimum and this global minimum
corresponds to this hypothesis,
which gets me a good fit to the data.
And so that's gradient descent,
and we've just run it and
gotten a good fit to my
data set of housing prices.
And you can now use it to predict,
you know,
if your friend has a house
size 1250 square feet,
you can now read off the value and tell
them that I don't know maybe they could
get $250,000 for their house.
Finally just to give this another
name it turns out that the algorithm
that we just went over is sometimes
called batch gradient descent.
And it turns out in machine learning I
don't know I feel like us machine learning
people were not always great
at giving names to algorithms.
But the term batch gradient
descent refers to the fact that
in every step of gradient descent, we're
looking at all of the training examples.
So in gradient descent,
when computing the derivatives,
we're computing the sums [INAUDIBLE].
So ever step of gradient descent we end up
computing something like this that sums
over our m training examples and so
the term batch gradient descent refers to
the fact that we're looking at
the entire batch of training examples.
And again,
it's really not a great name, but
this is what machine
learning people call it.
And it turns out that there are sometimes
other versions of gradient descent that
are not batch versions,
but they are instead.
Do not look at the entire training set but
look at small subsets of
the training sets at a time.
And we'll talk about those versions
later in this course as well.
But for now using the algorithm we just
learned about or using batch gradient
descent you now know how to implement
gradient descent for linear regression.
So that's linear regression
with gradient descent.
If you've seen advanced
linear algebra before, so
some of you may have taken a class
in advanced linear algebra.
You might know that there exists
a solution for numerically solving for
the minimum of the cost
function j without needing to
use an iterative algorithm
like gradient descent.
Later in this course we'll talk about
that method as well that just solves for
the minimum of the cost function j
without needing these multiple steps of
gradient descent.
That other method is called
the normal equations method.
But in case you've heard of that
method it turns out that gradient
descent will scale better to larger data
sets than that normal equation method.
And now that we know about gradient
descent we'll be able to use it in lots
of different contexts and
we'll use it in lots of different
machine learning problems as well.
So congrats on learning about your
first machine learning algorithm.
We'll later have exercises in which we'll
ask you to implement gradient descent and
hopefully see these algorithms right for
yourselves.
But before that I first want to
tell you in the next set of videos.
The first one to tell you
about a generalization of
the gradient descent algorithm that
will make it much more powerful.
And I guess I'll tell you
about that in the next video.